import { Toggle } from '../src';
import packageData from '../package.json';

# Toggle

<PackageInfo packageData={packageData} componentNames={['Toggle']} />

The toggle component allows you to render checkboxes or radio buttons, all in
one component. All you have to do is specify the Toggle `type` and let the
component handle the rest. Toggle is built to handle both single and multiple
options.

**You must keep track of state yourself**. The state has to be handled
differently depending on whether you want to use single or multiple options. See
examples below.

## Checkbox with single option

When you only want a single option, please use the `label` property over passing
a single option to the `options` property. This results in the `onChange`
callback function returning a single boolean value indicating the current state
of the toggle.

```jsx example
function Example() {
    const [checked, setChecked] = React.useState(false);

    return (
        <>
            <p className="h4">{checked.toString()}</p>
            <Toggle
                type="checkbox"
                label="Apple"
                checked={checked}
                onChange={(checked) => setChecked(checked)}
            />
        </>
    );
}
```

**Note** the `checked` property, which is only used to set the default value on
component mount. **It does not** actively pass down the state of the checkbox.
Feel free to omit this property if you are not setting the default value of the
checkbox.

**Note** the `onChange` property returning a boolean value. This is because
we're working with a single option. When using the `options` property, as seen
in examples below, the option which has been selected is returned on the
callback and we must handle this state ourselves.

## Checkbox with multiple options

Let's have a look at using the Toggle with multiple options. As mentioned above,
using the `options` property will change the returning value of the `onChange`
callback. It will now return the option which was selected.

```jsx example
function Example() {
    const [selected, setSelected] = React.useState([
        { label: 'Microsoft', value: 'microsoft' },
    ]);

    const handleSelect = (entry) => {
        if (selected.some((e) => e.value === entry.value)) {
            return setSelected(selected.filter((s) => s.value !== entry.value));
        }

        return setSelected([...selected, entry]);
    };

    return (
        <>
            <p className="h4">{JSON.stringify(selected)}</p>
            <Toggle
                type="checkbox"
                selected={selected}
                options={[
                    { label: 'Apple', value: 'apple' },
                    { label: 'Microsoft', value: 'microsoft' },
                ]}
                onChange={handleSelect}
            />
        </>
    );
}
```

**Note** the `selected` property. Similar to the single option `checked`
property, this will render the passed options as checked by default when the
component mounts.

## Toggle with multiple options

We've already had a look at checkboxes, but Toggle can also render radio options
and buttons.

### Radio

```jsx example
function Example() {
    const options = [
        { label: 'hi', value: 2 },
        { label: 'test', value: 3 },
    ];

    return (
        <Toggle
            type="radio"
            options={options}
            onChange={(selected) => console.log(selected)}
        />
    );
}
```

### Radio buttons

```jsx example
function Example() {
    const options = [
        { label: 'hi', value: 2 },
        { label: 'test', value: 3 },
    ];

    return (
        <Toggle
            type="radio-button"
            options={options}
            onChange={(e) => console.log(e)}
        />
    );
}
```

# Toggle props

```props packages/toggle/src/component.tsx

```

```ts
type ToggleEntry = {
    label: string;
    value: unknown;
};
```
